+++
date = '2025-08-17T10:17:02-04:00'
draft = true
title = 'Civic Holiday'
+++

# A Week in Tobermory

Way back in February, Kari had booked our family a week at a cottage in Tobermory. The week in question was the week of the August long weekend, and in February, this seemed like a lifetime away. But the pace of life is unrelenting, and the approaching vacation snuck up on Kari and I.

On the Wednesday before the vacation, we realized we had no plans for kayaks. As a family we have had two prior cottage, outings and kayaking had been a favored passed time for the whole family each time. The first time kayaks were supplied, the time second we rented them. The cost of renting two kayaks for the week was considerable, and we debated the cost of purchasing our own when we returned them. So, on the Wednesday evening before we decided to buy our own. This gave us two days. Thursday and Friday we scrambled to find kayaks to purchase, and a means to mount them on our car.
After much running around we were proud owners of two kayaks.

Saturday morning we strapped our brand-new kayaks to our brand-new roof racks, and set off on the four-hour-plus drive up to Tobermory. We listened to an audiobook along the way "The Twits Next Door" a book inspired by Roald Dahl's novel "The Twits". We stopped in Owen sound to have a late lunch and stretch our legs. By the time we were approaching Tobermory, we were running low on gas, and we had not seen an operational gas station in a while. We had been warned that past Wiarton, there might not be any opportunities to fuel up. We left home with a full tank, and so seldomly need to refill it that we did not anticipate needing to fill it before we arrived. Our anxiety mounted with each passing kilometer.

We were finally able to get gas, about fifteen minutes away from our rental cottage. It was a full service station and they gave the boys lollipops. Kari and I were both visibly relieved.

Our cottage, like everything else in Tobermory, was just off Highway 6. Take Dorcas Bay Road, past Singing Sands Beach, for a ten-minute spiraling jaunt, then turn on to Robert Allen Drive for what seemed like the same drive we had just taken on Dorcas Bay Road. The trees on this part of the Bruce Penisula were far from majestic. It looked like a Christmas tree farm ad been abandoned thirty years before. All the trees seemed evenly spaced, of a uniformed height and shorter than they should have been.

Our cottage was on [Little Eagle Harbor](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Little+Eagle+Harbour/@45.1526611,-81.582768,15.08z/data=!4m6!3m5!1s0x4d2d0fe7fd430fe1:0x13ab60f484f0ae4d!8m2!3d45.1487673!4d-81.580432!16s%2Fg%2F1tj1rqdq?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDgxMy4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D). The original house was a one and a half story building with red siding, with two bedrooms up-stairs, a laundry room, a large dining room, a kitchen, and a third bedroom tucked in under the stairs. The addition had beige siding and was called the Great Room. It had a peaked ceiling that matched the pitch and slope of the original house, a wood burning stove in one corner, a TV a comfy chair, a leather couch and a matching loveseat. The floor around the edge was hardwood, like the rest of the cottage, but had a carpet installed in a recess in the floor of the great room. The great room had windows on all the exterior walls. The cottage's eastern facing walls were mostly windows facing the water. Outside there was a two level deck with a grill on the upper deck, and a seating area on the lower deck. There were two natural paths moving away from the deck. On the right-hand side there was a fire-pit area with a muskoka chairs circling an iron meshed fire pit. To the left a stone lined natural path to small a three tiered dock/deck that looked out over section of the rocky beach of Little Eagle Harbor.

We had no activities planned for the first few days we were there. Relaxing was the only agenda item. We spent much of this time taking turns kayaking around the harbor, and swimming by the dock of our cottage. The water was quite cold, as are most of the great lakes, but unlike the other great lakes I have been to the water was crystal clear. The water took on shades of blue that were almost turquoise. You could see the carpet of knife-like rocks at every depth across the harbor. The shore was covered in similarly jagged rocks. Every step I took was precarious. The rocks were so uneven and sharp that every foot fall threatened a twisted ankle or a fall. Grant and Truman however seemed to prance about the rocks with the grace and speed of gazelles on the African plains.

We swam. We kayaked. We read our books. The boys climbed a tree in the yard. We had s'mores at the fire pit. We relaxed. The boys were bored by day two.

The boys found K-pop Demon Hunters on Netflix, and this became their soundtrack, and over arching focus during the trip.

We had several national parks that we had planned to see while on the Bruce Peninsula. The first we went to see was called ["The Grotto"](https://www.google.com/maps/place/the+grotto+bruce+peninsula+national+park/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x4d2d062bec46ad1b:0xec9dc7da5d7ccc24?sa=X&ved=1t:155783&ictx=111). The Grotto is very popular and will only allow a certain number of people in at a time. This means timed entry and exit for all visitors. We went in the morning and needed to leave by 1 pm. We followed a pleasant and easy hiking trail leading to the Grotto. The trail seemed to get less easy as we went along. The trail took us to Indian Head Cove. The water here was a shade I had never thought possible in Canada. It looked like the waters in Dubrovnik. Bright turquoise and blue water, crashing waves, and beach of large round rocks of pure white lime stone. We looked around for a few minutes before climbing the trail marked "Difficult" that lead to the Grotto.

This "trail" was really more of a trail in spirit. It consisted of white marking painted on trees, and a rough rocky terrain that had me on all fours more than once. The Grotto was a cave and a cliff that looked like it belonged in Croatia. It was very impressive. It was also very crowded, and the people gathered had little room to maneuver. It was like a crowded subway platform, but instead of falling onto the track, you could fall down 60 feet of razor edged rocks into a scenic ocean cave.

We headed back for to swim at Indian Head Cove. We perched on a big rock next to a little cove where the waves were crashing in a fun but manageable way. The water was iridescent blue at a distance and crystal clear up close. The smooth white limestone shelves on the floor of the cove gave the whole scene the appearance of water melt on a glacier. The water felt as cold as glacier run off. The water was than any beach we had been to except for Long beach in Tofino. The boys and I all played in the surf. Excited by the smoothness of the lime stone underfoot and the clarity of the water. Kari sat on in the sun on the rock overlooking us. Besides the little inlet where we were playing, there were two more to the left, each separated by an outcropping of rock. The waves got progressively more intense moving to the left.

The boys got cold and headed up to the rock to sit with Kari and have a snack. I explored the other inlets. I found at the inlet furthest from our perch there was a space to jump off the rocks safely. I did this several times. It was fascinating to see the contour of the limestone beach under the water. Seeing shelves and cliffs, and large smooth stones. Kari, Grant, and Truman all came into the water. Kari and Grant found it too cold and went back to sit on the large rock. But "We _ALL_ went swimming" as Kari likes to say. Truman and I played in the water for a while longer. Kari said that I was having the time of my life. It may have been my favorite beach of all time.



