+++
date = '2025-02-24T17:39:28-05:00'
title = 'Retreat'
+++

# Retreat

The plan for this past week was to fly to the US for a work retreat. These types of forced interactions always make me nervous. An unprecedented snow fall and a plane crash at YYZ, meant my flight was cancelled. While it was stressful having my travel plans up in the air, I was grateful as it meant I got to spend Family Day with my family as opposed to a bunch of strangers who happen to share the same employer. We spent the day 5 pin bowling with Jeremy, Simon and Jess at a shopping mall in Scarborough, kids in one lane and adults in the adjacent one.

There were many discussions amongst the kids about various techniques and strategies to ensure a successful frame, but we needed to remind all the kids at one point or another that the scores were due mainly to luck, and that they don't bowl enough to have any real developed skill. We played four games, ate hot dogs and had ice cream. A good time was had by all.

My flight was rescheduled to Tuesday morning at 8:35 am. I took an Uber at 5:30 to ensure that I made it to Pearson on time. I am glad I did. The airport was chaotic. With the cancelled flights due to snow _and_ to the plane crash the day before, Pearson was congested like a factory farm. I had thought I would have ample time before boarding, but I made it through all the security hoops just in time to grab a sandwich, and get in line to board.

I arrived in Denver and took pre-arranged transport to the hotel in Boulder. The driver and I had an awkward conversation about AI taking jobs, and the types of jobs he deemed safe from automation. He asked if Toronto was as big as Denver, I told him the only two US cities larger than Toronto are New York and Los Angeles. When I got to the hotel, they could not find my reservation. This was a case of middle-name-as-first-name mix up, and was eventually cleared up, but not before the morning work session had wrapped up, and my colleagues had embarked on their afternoon activities. The activity options were shooting guns at the local firing range, or zip lining. The outside temperature was -11 with a windchill of -19, and I am not a gun person, so I was not disappointed to miss the group activities.

After dropping off my luggage I went to wander downtown Boulder in search of lunch and amusement. The main down town area is centered around The Pearl Street Mall, which is a few pedestrian only streets running east-west around Pearl Street. The buildings were charming and filled with restaurants, antique shops, nick-knack stores, handicraft dealers, and other offerings that seem targeted at late-middle-aged ladies. It reminded me of downtown Collingwood or Niagara-on-the-Lake. I ate lunch at an empty 3 story taqueria with a "Taco Tuesday" promotion and watched the last 30 minutes of the Bayern Munich vs Celtic game in the Champions League. Once the game was over, I continued wandering around the mall. I ended up grabbing a coffee, visiting 3 separate books stores and found a secret vintage arcade at the back of a candy store.

I am often shocked when I reflect on scope of sub-cultures and how to those outside of them they may seem incidental and insignificant. Furthermore, I think of web development in particular. It has celebrities, heroes, villains, leaders, conflicting movements and factions, armies of foot soldiers, passion and fashion, trends, memes and martyrs and a history with depth that is complicated and nuanced. People live their entire lives, build their empires, conquer the world all within the scope of web development sub-culture. And all of it is invisible to people outside of software development. My colleagues all participate in a sub-culture that I had no interest in, or awareness of before I started at the company. I often feel like I have aphasia listening to them talk amongst themselves. The words are familiar, used in contexts I could not have anticipated, carrying meaning I cannot derive. The company hires people who are enthusiastic about this sub culture already, so I feel like an interloper or a fraud at company gatherings. I have to ensure not to ask questions or make statements that would betray my status as an outsider. This makes an already exhausting social situation insufferable. I quietly struggle to infer the connections between references, to piece together my own image of their niche, and make polite chit-chat. It is a grind.

Each night of the retreat there is a group dinner. This is either a catered affair at some kind of event space, or it is at a restaurant that is rented out for our use only. There is also some form entertainment provided. Because of my lack of subcultural awareness, I always feel like I am crashing a wedding reception.

Dinner on my first night was at a German themed restaurant in Pearl Street Mall. We had a buffet of chicken schnitzel, spaetzle, goulash, roasted veggies and other eastern European fare. The "entertainment" was man and a woman in lederhosen, aggressively mingling with the crowd in broad and inauthentic German accents, accompanied by a man playing an array of pop songs on an accordion. I was surprised that this type of act existed, and could be found in such a small city. If a similar act had been tailored a sushi restaurant, it would be right out of Breakfast at Tiffany's. After dinner, and several steins of beer a dozen of us braved the cold and made the 15-minute trek up the hill to our hotel.

I wished I was home, I missed Kari and the boys so much.

Day two I opted for the group activity in the afternoon, a "Bites and Brews" tour around the city. Our group of 16 took a bus from the hotel to Pearl Street mall where we met our guide and commenced our tour. First stop, a local whiskey producer. The owner, an older Scottish man, greeted us, described his various whiskeys. We were told to sample as many as we liked. I had 4 and regretted it almost immediately. It was 1 pm, 4 shots in, and I had skipped lunch as I was expecting to eat on the tour. This was followed up with a visit to the storefront for a local winery. We were served 3 glasses of wine each. The wine was quite good, the Sauvignon Blanc being the stand-out. Our group was presented with a charcuterie board that could at most be an amuse-bouche for 3 people. I needed some bites to go with the brews. Our third stop was for a flight of mead. I have never had mead before, I enjoyed it, but it was much sweeter than I had anticipated. Most of our group disliked the taste, and many left their flights unfinished. The last stop was a Tiki Bar, where we were served pina coladas made with fresh fruit, french fries, and some fried plantains. The tour ended, we had no "brews" and too few bites. I had a nap at the hotel.

I awoke just in time for dinner. We boarded a bus that took us to yet another restaurant in Pearl Street Mall. The food was good, but in a non-commentable sort of way. Entertainment was an up-close magician, and an electric violinist who played, Avicii, Coldplay, Imagine Dragons and other favorites of my boys. I missed them terribly. Again the evening ended with a cold hike back to the hotel.


Day three I spent the afternoon with three colleagues touring the campus of Colorado University. The campus was beautiful, red stone buildings with terracotta roofs and the mountains soaring majestically behind them. We saw the football stadium, gift shop, quad, and the campus book store. I bought a couple of stuffed buffaloes for the boys. After wandering the campus for an hour or so, we made our way down to Pearl Street, again. We went to a store that specialized in alpaca themed merchandise. Between my initial outing, the food tour, and our evening restaurants, this may have been the only store in Pearl Street Mall I had not previously visited. A colleague who had taken the food tour the day before felt the same way, and we returned to the hotel, leaving the other two to wander the mall as the pleased.

Diner was at in a private room above Meow Wolf in Denver. We had a dinner fit for Kari, short ribs, roasted brussel sprouts, parmesan risotto, and focaccia. Meow Wolf is an "immersive art experience" and after dinner we were free to explore. There were several street-scapes and biomes, all with different themes, artwork, sounds effects lighting, and various gadgets to interact with. It was like a labyrinth inside a busy-box for adults. It was exhilarating and delightful. There was a constant sense of exploration and wonder, of being joyfully lost in the surreal environments. I wished the boys could have seen it. It was the highlight of the retreat.

The next day was departure day. I checked out of the hotel and took the shuttle to the airport. My flight was delayed by an hour. On the flight home, I had an empty seat next to me! I love it when this happens, I can stretch out without impeding on the comfort of other passengers. When I landed, I was treated by the best surprise: Since the flight was delayed, Kari and the boys were able to come pick me up at the airport! I had missed them so much, and was looking forward to hearing about _their_ week, and getting some big hugs. Truman came running up to me with his arms wide, Grant sauntered up to me too, we all had a giant hug. In what has become a tradition after business travel pickup we had dinner at Paramount on the Queensway. I was so grateful to be having dinner with people I loved.